Fix deep equality and error diffs (#165)
dethcrypto/earl: packages/docs/api/equality-algorithm.md

---
id: equality-algorithm
title: Equality Algorithm
---

The equality algorithm is an extensible and parameterized deep equality checker.
It is used by all functions that check deep equality inside earl.

> ## Algorithm

Reviewer: What do you think about linking to source code of functions implementing the algorithm here?

Author: I don't like linking to code from the docs because it gets out of sync to easily. I think linking to the docs from the code is enough.

> To determine is two values are equal the following checks are executed:

Author: It was supposed to be `if` not `is`. I like the passive voice here, I'd change it to:
```suggestion
To determine the equality of two values the following checks are executed:
```

1. If the second value is a [Matcher](/guides/using-matchers.md) and it...
   1. matches the first value, then the values are considered equal;
   1. doesn't match the first value, then the values are considered unequal.
1. Every [custom rules](/advanced/plugin-development.md) is checked.
   1. If it returns undefined the next rule is checked or the algorithm
      advances.
   1. If it returns success, then the values are considered equal.

>    1. If it returns error, then the values are considered unequal.

Author: I think fallback on false makes it impossible to write rules like: `Always compare arrays using ===`, because if comparison fails then the array is going to be compared deeply anyway.

1. If any of the values is equal to one of it's ancestors (is a self-referencing
   object)...
   1. If the other value is equal to it's ancestor of the same distance (e.g.
      grandparent and grandparent), then the values are considered equal.
   2. Otherwise they are considered unequal.
1. A category is determined for each value based on the rules of each category.
   1. If the values have different categories, then they are considered unequal.
   1. If the category is the same the values are compared according to rules of
      that category.

Additionally the algorithm takes the following options:

> - `uniqueNaNs` - Considers two `NaN` values unequal, defaults to `false`.

Reviewer: Are the options ever exposed for the user?

Author: Currently they aren't. I think in the future earl could change the API surface from `isEqual` and `isLooseEqual` to `isEqual(value, options?)` which would expose them. I kept `uniqueNaNs`,`minusZero` and `compareErrorStack` even though they are set to `false` everywhere, because they are design choices that I felt are best exposed rather then hidden.

- `minusZero` - Considers `+0` and `-0` unequal, defaults to `false`.
- `ignorePrototypes` - Considers `new Vector2(1, 2)` and `{ x: 1, y: 2 }` equal,
  defaults to `false`. This option is set to `true` when using
  [`.toLooseEqual`](/api/api-reference.md#toLooseEqual-value-any).
- `compareErrorStack` - Compares the stack property of `Error` instances,
  defaults to `false`.

## Categories

### Primitive

A value belongs to the Primitive category if `typeof value` returns any of the
following:

- `"undefined"`
- `"boolean"`
- `"number"`
- `"bigint"`
- `"string"`
- `"symbol"`
- `"object"`, but only if the value is `null`

The equality of values belonging to the Primitive category is determined in the
following way:

1. If both values are `NaN` and `uniqueNaNs` is set to `false`, then the values
   are considered equal.
1. If `minusZero` is set to `true` then `0` is only considered equal to `0` and
   `-0` is only considered equal to `-0`.
1. Otherwise it is determined by the `===` operator.

### Function, Promise, WeakMap, WeakSet

> A value belongs to the Function category if `typeof value` returns `"function"`.
> 
> A value belongs to the Promise category if `value instanceof Promise` returns
> `true`.
> 
> A value belongs to the WeakMap category if `value instanceof WeakMap` returns
> `true`.
> 
> A value belongs to the WeakSet category if `value instanceof WeakSet` returns
> `true`.
> 
> The equality of values belonging to those categories is determined by the `===`
> operator.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A value belongs to the Function category if `typeof value` returns `"function"`.
- A value belongs to the Promise category if `value instanceof Promise` returns
`true`.
- A value belongs to the WeakMap category if `value instanceof WeakMap` returns
`true`.
- A value belongs to the WeakSet category if `value instanceof WeakSet` returns
`true`.

The equality of values belonging to those categories is determined by the `===`
operator.
```

IMHO these would be more readable as bullet points.

Author: :+1:
